# PLL-Design-Using-Google-Sky-130nm
A Phase Locked Loop an Analog IP (Intellectual Property) that is used to generate a clock signal for digital synchronous circuit systems. This repo walks through the end-to-end design of a Phase Locked Loop, designed on the Skywater 130nm technology node. The design, simulation and layout of this PLL have been carried out using Open Source tools such as Ngspice (for simulations), Magic (for layout) and the Sky130 PDK (Process Design Kit for the transistor specifications).
# An Overview of the Design Procedure. 
There are several steps that have to be carried out from the inception of a design till its layout to obtain a precisely functioning IP. The following points discuss the important steps that have been carried out for the PLL.
1. Simulations: Different components of a large circuit system like a PLL have to be simulated first. Simulations make use of specifications given in the PDK to make copies of transistors. While performing simulations, transistor sizing, voltages and currents in each sub-circuit have to be adjusted to get a desired output. Simulations help in checking the overall functionality of the circuit. In this project, simulations have been carried out using Ngspice. 
2. Layout: Layout refers to constructing a schematic diagram of different layers of transistors and interconnecting components. Once successful simulations of the IC have been carried out, the layout or the mask is drawn. The nature of materials that make up transistors and interconnects introudce delays and other material-dependent aberrations in the circuit. In this project, the IC layout has been drawn using Magic. Design Rule Checking is a method to verify whether a particular design is compliant with the restrictions posed by the process technology. Layout helps in executing DRC and extracts the necessary parasitics associated with the design.
3. Post-Layout Simulations: Once the parasititcs have been extracted, the are appended to the SPICE file created pre-layout and simulated again. This gives a more realistic picture of the functioning of the IP, complete with the inclusion of all delays and parasitics. After the post-layout simulations have been verified, the circuit can be sent to foundries for tapeout. 
